# Assignment 6: User Testing

## Task List

<table>
    <tr>
        <td><strong>Task Name</strong></td>
        <td><strong>Instruction</strong></td>
        <td><strong>Rationale</strong></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Login</td>
        <td>Please register an account on HelloUSA and login.</td>
        <td>I believe it is worth testing the login task because it is the first thing users need to do to use the app and sets up the user experience for using the actual app. Since my app starts at a home page rather than a login page, I wanted to observe how a user reacts to the design choice of starting at the homepage rather than a login page. Since it’s my design choice, I wouldn’t be able to fully evaluate the reaction of this choice if I were to just do a cognitive walkthrough. I would need an outside participant who hasn’t seen the app in order to observe a candid reaction to this design choice (i.e. surprise, confusion, indifference, etc.). Since various people have different levels of experience with technology, the reactions to viewing this design choice as opposed to what they see on other apps may invoke different reactions depending on their expectations. So, I would need to user test the task and go beyond a cognitive walkthrough with just myself.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Find Help Page</td>
        <td>Now that you are logged in, please navigate to the help page.</td>
        <td>The help page is an important section of app support material for users and is an experimental addition to my app based on A5’s heuristic evaluation. That being said, I need to test how understandable and accessible this page is. Through this task, I want to gauge the ease that users are able to find this page upon first using the app since more navigation options appear in the navigation bar after login. I also want to observe how users read through the page and hear their comments on the information in this page. Since I wrote the content on the page, I think it is helpful, but having an outside user who hasn’t used the app before navigate to and look through the page could provide new insights on what type of content should appear on the page/how it should be formatted for better readability. While a cognitive walkthrough gives me information on actions, I need user opinions on the page as well as to observe how people process textual information since it is different from everyone.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>View milestones</td>
        <td>Now, please check what milestones you have.</td>
        <td>Milestones are the way HelloUSA tracks their progress on the app. I wanted to test the ease users are able to find the milestones button among the various options on the navigation. I hope to learn about how users react to seeing milestones/gauge their meaning as well as investigate what ordering of options on the navigation bar would help users find functions related to their personal account easily. I think it is intuitive for pages related to the user(i.e. milestones) to be grouped toward the rightmost end of the navigation bar, but that could be unique to how I process information. So, I would like to test this task to see if this way of processing information is shared by outside users. I would not be able to gain the diverse perspectives of other users on how they process information on navigation bars or their intuition about the milestone concept if I just did a cognitive walkthrough. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Create a resource folder</td>
        <td>Please create a saved resource folder.</td>
        <td>Creating resource folders is a key concept of my app inspired by the user interviews I had. I would like to observe how users utilize the navigation bar to find where the resource folders are (since the navigation title for resource folders is not named obviously) and how users navigate creating a resource folder for the first time. I want know to what degree different users can associate the task of creating a resource folder with the action of going to the home page and filling out the resource folder form, which I wouldn't be able to do with just a cognitive walkthrough.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Create a group [ERROR]</td>
        <td>Please create a user group</td>
        <td>Creating user groups is one of the main features of my app. However, users can only create a user group for other community members once they have earned several milestones. I would like to test how users respond to being told that they don’t have the milestone credentials to make a user group and observe their reaction to the error message. Also, different peple have different reading speeds and attention levels to detail. So, I would like to see if the error message is sufficient in getting diverse users' attention and that users can understand what the message means, especially since the error message is flashing. I would not be able to capture the diversity in reactions to the error message given the differences between various users (ie reading speed, attention to detail, etc) if I only did a cognitive walkthrough. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Make a post</td>
        <td>Please join the Vietnamese Immigrants in Indiana user group and make a post.</td>
        <td>Creating a post is one important feature of my app. However, you can only post within groups. I want to observe how users go about finding and entering groups and making a post within the group they entered. In addition, I want to observe user’s reactions to how their post appears within the group and where they go to look for their post among the other posts in the group. This is because different users have different instincts when it comes to reading. Some may scroll to the bottom to find their post and others may assume that their post will appear toward the top of the post listings (recent posts on top vs old posts on top). I want to hear users’ thoughts about how posts appear and the process to make a post in order to collect ideas on ways to improve this process (if needed).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Create a comment</td>
        <td>Please make a comment on a post in the group.</td>
        <td>Commenting is another important feature of my app. Comments are made on posts and appear underneath the post the comment was made on. I want to observe how users go about making a comment while in a user group. I also want to observe where users go to view the comment they made on a post/their reaction to the comment placement underneath posts. This task tests if my design choices in grouping of posts/comments align with the gestalt principles of proximity and grouping. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Create a user group</td>
        <td>Please make a user group. Please enter a name for your group and description.</td>
        <td>Making a user group is one of the key features of the app. I want to observe how users go about returning to the groups pag (and if there are any issues doing so) and creating their own user group. I also want to observe if they make the connection that in the prior tasks they have fulfilled the milestone requirements to be able to create a user group of their own.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Save a post to a resource folder and view it</td>
        <td>Please go inside the "Vietnamese Immigrants in Indiana" and save a post to the resource folder you created earlier. Then, go to the resource folder you created earlier and view the post you just saved.</td>
        <td>Saving resources to a folder is another key feature of my app. I want to observe how users navigate into a user group again and where they go to save a post. Most importantly, I want to observe if users make the connection between the task of saving a post to a resource folder and being able to see it in the saved resource folder they created. I'm looking for reactions and commentary from various users (i.e. understanding, confusion, etc.). I think it is intuitive to navigate to the resource folders as it is the first thing users see when they log in, but since I am user testing on users of various ages and experiences with tech, this connection may not be as intuitive or the user may not remember the pages they visited as well, so I need to test this task rather than just doing a cognitive walkthrough myself.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>Find nearby users</td>
        <td>Please go to the Community Map and opt in your location with the city as Cambridge and state as Massachusetts. Then, go to search for users who live in Cambridge Massachusetts. </td>
        <td> The community map is another important part of the app and is a unique feature. It is worth testing this task as the community map functionality must be user friendly in order to fulfill its purpose of reducing the friction immigrants may feel when trying to find people who share their immigrant experience nearby. I would like to observe where users go to search for nearby users, what they click on first on the page, and how they respond to error messages (if any are displayed) to accomplish the task. Aside from the actions users need to do on this page, I am also looking for their reactions on this feature upon first viewing it (ie like, dislike, confused, etc), which is why it is a task. I would like to go beyond functionality and observe how users react to this unique feature on the app and where they go to first on the page, so I can't just do a cognitive walkthrough with just myself.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

## Report for Le-Thanh

As a summary of Le-Thanh’s user test, she went through most of the tasks pretty easily. She took time to read the help page thoroughly from top to bottom. She felt like the app was easy to use and the information on the pages was clear to follow. However, she did admit that “It takes time to explore [the app], like every app” and “you intention [of the app] I don’t know until I use it and explore it for a little bit”, indicating that she needed some time to get acquainted with the app but felt like that was normal. Some key improvements she recommended were to increase the time the error messages appeared on the screen, since she couldn’t read them in time. A key moment during the interview was when she grew frustrated at creating a group when she didn’t have the correct milestones yet. When she clicked create group after entering in her group information, she expected to see her group appear in the groups list. However, the interface displayed an error message that was quick to disappear, which left her confused and attempting to create a group a couple more times with no avail. This instance broke the gulf of evaluation. I infer that this reaction of frustration and retrying to make a group was an attempt to fulfill the expectations she had when she clicked “create group” but since couldn’t she felt like her expectations were not met. Another key moment was when she confused the purpose of folders and groups. She seemed to use the MCAT resources folder correctly by naming it after a topic. But, when she created a group, she named the group after a topic as well, “MCAT resources”. During our debrief, I asked her why she did this and she explained that she thought that user groups were for personal notes. I infer that this confusion occurred partly because of the UI of creating a group and being a folder being almost identical. Also, since there was no navigation option indicating folders exist on the app, it may have led her to mentally group the folder and group concept together since they both were used to hold a collection of things.

## Report for Joseph

As a summary of Joseph’s user test, he went through the first few tasks very easily. He was able to use the navigation bar to find the pages that each task needed to be performed. However, when it got to the creating a resource folder task, there was hesitation and confusion on where the page for creating the resource folder was. The flow broke down in the Gulf of Execution. My hypothesis for why this occurred was because there is no option on the navigation bar that explicitly says “Resource Folders” since my design has resource folders under the “Home” page. In bringing this moment of confusion up to Joseph during the debrief, he elaborated that the “Homepage is too vague of a title because you don’t know what it entails”. He expressed how he was expecting something in the navigation bar to be about a folder (i.e. “Saved Folders”) and that the “Home” option in the navigation bar should be more descriptive if that is where the resource folders will be. Another key moment was during the Create Group [ERROR] task. When the error message flashed after Joseph created a group without the proper milestones, he didn’t notice the flashing error message at all, which surprised me. When I debriefed this with him, he expressed how he didn’t notice because the flash was too fast for him to register the words on the error message and that the error message occurred at all. The Gulf of Evaluation broke down. He gave the suggestion of having an error message that pops up and requires the user to click out of it rather than the flashing error message. The final key moment that surprised me was when I asked Joseph to join the group “Vietnamese Immigrants in Indiana” and he clicked out of the groups tab and into the community map. I asked him why he did this in the debrief and he said it was because he associated Community Map with location so when I asked about a group in Indiana he went to that page. I infer that he did this because I hadn’t given him much prior information on what a Community Map was, so his instinct was to associate my task that had words connected to location in it with the map. Other notes were that he stated that he would’ve liked more background information on what a group is vs. a resource folder and what their purposes are and what a community map is., but overall felt like the app was easy to use and could help immigrants.

## Flaws and Opportunities For Improvement

- Problem with finding where the resource folders were (navigation bar labels not intuitive)
    - My users often got lost when navigating when trying to find where resource folders were. This is because there is no option in the navigation bar that says anything about "Resource Folders" since the resource folders are located on the "Home" page. Both users in the test had trouble finding the resource folders and had to go through multiple tabs to find the folders again. This flaw is moderate as users could recover but were confused and had to go through tabs for a little while. In the future, I would change from "Home" to something like "Saved Resource Folders" so that users can better find where the resource folders are. This flaw linguistic (Home label does not help user know where to find resource folders).

- Error messages were too fast to read
    - This flaw manifested because the error messages that pop up when creating groups without the necessary milestones is too quick to read. One of my users didn't even see the error message because he was too focused on looking for his created group. My other user saw the message but expressed frustration in not being able to read it. In the future, I could address this by having a error pop up that was stays on the users' page until they click out of it so that it is more noticeable to users. I also could've colored the erorr a bright red to draw more attention to it. In addition, I could adjust the font of the error message to make it more prominent and make the error message more descriptive. This flaw is physical (error message not readable) and linguistic (erorr message not as descriptive - information scent low) of critical severity as users didn't know how to proceed afterwards and grew frustrated.

- More explicit tutorial
    - An opportunity for improvement is to make the app tutorial (help page) more explicit. The current help page is said to be easy to understand by the users I tested, but they still have some confusion with what each app feature did. This could be happening because users most likely won't remember all the app's functionality after reading the help page once or twice. To accomodate users with different learning styles, For example, both users read the help page and said they understood it, but when it came to using functions like creating groups, they didn't know why they couldn't make a group even though they had read earlier that creating groups required several milestones. I could still have the help page, but also create a tutorial feature such that once a user logs in for the first time they will be taken through the pages of the app and told how to use each of the app's features. I could also include pictures in the help page to complement the text explanations of features or add a help button at the bottome right of the page where the user can ask for help finding or using a feature. This opportunity for improvement is of minor severity as users expressed that with time they would eventually get the function of the app. However, it would still be nice for users to get the features of the app more quickly. The classification for this opportunity is conceptual.

- Differentiate between resource folder and user group more explicitly
    - An opportunity for improvement is to make the resource folder and user group concept in the app more explicit. Although resource folders and user groups appear on separate pages, both users seemed to mistake resource folders for user groups and vice versa. This could be because the UI of creating and viewing resource folders is very similar to that of user groups. This confusion could also stem from the user not being oriented with the app features enough upon first entering the app (i.e. Joseph mentioned that he would have liked more background information about the app and its features to understand the purpose features fulfill). This opportunity for important is moderate/major since a misunderstanding in the purpose of features sometimes won't prevent the user from making progress on the app, but would lead to unintended uses of the platforms such as with Le-Thanh using social groups to write about her own personal notes instead of using her resource folder. I think this opportunity is moreso conceptual. Some ways to improve this in the future is differentiating the UI of the resource folder page and user group to indicate different concepts. I could also add a description on the page about what the feature on the page does to make the purpose of the resource folder and user group more explicit.


